# Smart-meter---Innovate-FPGA-Contest-EMEA-2018
EM039 - A smart management system to optimize renewable energy distribution - Regional Final EMEA 2018

Renewable energy is unstable and unpredictable. A little bit more predictable are human needs of electrical energy. Small communities sometimes have private wind/solar plants and fast varying energy requirements that could be fed (so avoiding to get, and pay, energy from the local distributor) if only a precise and fast management system would be available.
Our idea starts by considering a small community, up to 100-200 houses, where each one may have (or not) a private small solar/wind plant with or without local energy storage. A small public renewable plant may also be available.
Houses will share a power distribution network and will be connected to each other via a PLC (Power Line Communication) protocol. A power meter connected to a local management system (i.e. a DE10-nano board) will equip each house. A local sensor will measure instant power consumption (and production if applicable), calculate and update local power needs trends and manage a fast switching system in order to decide the best quantity of produced energy to store/use locally and to pump into the network. The same system will ask others the exact quantity of energy required locally and, if possible, acknowledge all requests received.
There will not be a central management system, all procedures will be shared by local controllers, by communicating to each other instant power surplus/requirements in order to minimize the total amount of energy got from local distributor.
Data collected about net energy amount flowed in/out every house will be used to build a periodical balance so each producer/consumer will pay for the surplus energy got only.
Power requirements/production can vary in less than one second, so each local controller should be able to activate its switch as fast as the overall situation will require. A fast data communication and processing is then required.
